# capstone-unsuper
Marketing Campaign Analysis - Customer segmentation using unsupervised learning
Customer segmentation is the process of dividing a dataset of customers into groups of similar customers based on certain common characteristics, usually for the purpose of understanding the population dataset in a better fashion. Understanding customer behavior and characteristics is usually a critical part of the marketing operations of any business or organization, with direct consequences on sales & marketing strategy. Customer segmentation is often viewed as a means to achieve a better return on investment from marketing efforts, and make organizations more efficient in terms of utilizing their money, time, and other critical resources in custom marketing strategies for different groups of customers based on their unique needs and motivations.

For example, it has been understood from various research that customer segmentation often has a huge impact on people’s email engagement. Segmented campaigns often see over 100% more clicks than non-segmented campaigns, and email marketers who have segmented their audience before campaigning have reported a 6-7 times growth in their overall revenue. It has also been observed in various contexts that in today’s world, individual customers prefer personalized communications and offerings that cater to their particular interests.

In the context of marketing analytics then, customer segmentation has a vital role to play in optimizing ROI. It typically involves analyzing metrics around customer engagement with various marketing activities including but not limited to, ATL (above the line) marketing activities, BTL (below the line) campaigns, and targeting personalized offers. Typically, the variables of interest are customer profiles, campaign conversion rates, and information associated with various marketing channels. Based on these feature categories, the target is to create the best possible customer segments from the given data.
